So the question becomes, how can we coordinate these four events so that each one waits until the previous
one has actually completed?
Well, let's first use the traditional callback approach and then after that, we can try promises instead.
So starting on line number two, let's delete the calls to the four functions and start over.
So we would first call eat breakfast.
All right.
And I've configured these functions to accept the callback function.
So within the parentheses, we can give eat breakfast, a function, function, parentheses, curly
brackets.
Now, eat breakfast will not call this function until it has actually completed.
So within the body of this function, we could call eat lunch.
Cool.
You can see that they are in the expected order and then we can just do the same thing again.
We can give eat lunch a function within these parentheses as an argument.
So we could say function, parentheses, curly brackets.
Inside this function we could call eat dinner inside those parentheses, we could give that a function
and inside that we could finally call eat dessert.
Cool.
So now they are actually completing in the order that we would expect or want breakfast, lunch, dinner,
dessert.
However, look at the code that we had to write in order to coordinate multiple asynchronous events.
Having to continually nest one level deeper and one level deeper for each action is not desirable.
This leads to code that is very difficult to look at and immediately understand.
Not to mention it's a nightmare to be nested this many layers deep.
Now, clearly, this code technically works.
It gets the job done.
But if we can avoid this nesting, we should because in the long run our code will be much more manageable
and easy to maintain.
So now that we've seen this example with multiple asynchronous events that we need to coordinate, we're
starting to see the downside of callbacks that can lead to these messy, infinitely nested setups that
are just a nightmare to maintain.
So at this point, I want you to pause the video and now click on the second code, Penn Link, which
should look something like this.
And in this example, we are going to achieve the same thing, only we're going to use promises instead
of callbacks.
So in this new second code Penn link, I've set up the eat breakfast, lunch and dinner dessert functions
to return a promise.
So check this out.
Within this new code, Penn link on line number three, typed this out with me.
So first we would want to eat breakfast and now we know that all of these functions are going to return
a promise.
So after this, we can say, DOT, then for now, let's not worry about the dot catch in case there's
an error, we can circle back to that at the very end.
So within the parentheses for then we can give it a function that will run when this promise actually
or eventually resolves.
So inside these then parentheses to say function, parentheses, curly brackets.
Now check this out.
Within the body of this function, let's return and then call eat lunch, because we know that that's
going to return another promise.
So all together at the very end of this line of code, ultimately what this is all returning is another
promise.
So then we could chain on and just called then again for the new promise of eat lunch.
So then within these then parentheses, we could include a function.
And then return eat dinner and then this is all still one line of code, just broken down on two separate
lines for organization.
So now ultimately what it's returning is a promise from eat dinner.
So again, after a promise, we can say then give it a function, parentheses, curly brackets, and
then we can return, eat dessert, cool.
And you can see that they are running and actually completing in the desired order.
So when we need to coordinate multiple asynchronous events, one of the big benefits of using promises
is that you don't need to keep nesting one level deeper for each event with promises.
It's all very flat.
Each action is really just returning another promise and we can chain them together like this for as
long as we want.
We can make this code even easier to look at and immediately understand by using arrow functions instead
of traditional functions.
So check this out up within our first, then let's convert this into an arrow function.
So get rid of the word function after the parentheses include equal greater than for the arrow symbol.
OK, and now because the body of this function can easily fit on one line, right.
We're only performing one operation.
There's really no need for it to have its own line like this.
So right before the word return, we can just backspace up onto the same line and then do the same thing
at the beginning of this line.
Also, if your arrow function fits on a single line, you don't need the curly brackets.
So we could get rid of the opening curly bracket in this closing curly bracket right here.
Finally, with an arrow function, if it fits on a single line, you also don't need the word return.
So we could get rid of that like this to stay further organized.
We could keep each dot then on its own line like this.
Just to see how clean this can look, I will convert these to erro functions as well.
So get rid of the word function and the arrow symbol, have it all on a single line.
We don't need return or the curly brackets have this dropdown to its own line like this.
Get rid of the word function, add the arrow symbol, have it set on a single line and get rid of the
word return and the curly brackets.
Cool.
So this is still working breakfast, lunch, dinner, dessert only now look how clean and instantly
readable our code is.
It's not infinitely nested and we can just continue to chain on as many further promises as we need
to.
And then finally, at the very end of it, we can add on a catch and we can just provide a function.
And now another nice thing with promises instead of callbacks is error handling.
So within the parentheses, we just receive an error and then we can log that to the console or send
it to the browser or whatever we need to do with it.
The cool part is that we don't need to micromanage or babysit each of our actions listening for errors
like we would with callbacks.
We can just have one single catch.
And if any of our promises reject instead of resolve, this will take care of it.
So maybe now the advantage of promises is starting to come into focus.
Hopefully we can agree that this code is easier to understand or manage than the infinitely nested callback
approach.
I don't know about you, but I would much rather work with this code.
Now, before we bring this lesson to a close, I do want to show you an alternate way of working with
promises, a way that is potentially even cleaner than the then catch approach.
I'm actually going to delete this code that we just wrote.
You're free to copy and paste it into another file for reference if you'd like to.
But I'm going to delete it and I want to show you something that is referred to as async awaked.
So what in the world does that phrase mean?
Let me show you.
Let's actually bring things full circle and go back to just calling each function one by one.
So eat breakfast.
And then below that on a new line, eat lunch.
Below that on a new line.
Eat dinner below that, eat dessert.
Now we know that this will not work, right?
So we see dessert, lunch, dinner, breakfast.
We already went over in detail.
Why this approach does not work.
However, what if I told you that with promises we can just magically include the word a weight before
them and then JavaScript will indeed let this asynchronous operational promise resolve or complete however
long that takes before moving on to the next operation?
Well, this dream is a reality.
We can simply just add a weight like this.
We wouldn't need it for eat dessert because we don't need to coordinate an action after that.
Right.
It's the last action.
Now, there's only one catch with this, a weight feature, and that is that you can only use a weight
if you are within an asynchronous function.
So check it out.
I want you to cut these four lines into your clipboard.
So cut those and then let's create a function.
So function.
Let's give it a name.
You could call it anything.
Unicorn pizza.
Go start.
I will call it run our actions parentheses, curly brackets.
And now within the body of this function, just paste in your clipboard.
OK, now remember I said that this magical await word only works within an async function.
So when we are defining this function right before the word function, we just say async.
That's it.
That's all we need to do.
This is now an asynchronous or async function and it has the await feature available within it.
So we created this function definition named Run Our Actions.
Now let's just actually call that functions right below it, run our actions and look at that.
They are running in the order that we want them to.
I don't know about you, but this code looks really clean to me.
This is my preferred way of using or leveraging promises before a promise.
You can include the word awaked and then JavaScript will freeze the world and wait for it to finish
before it ever moves on to further operations.
In terms of error handling with async away, it's also very simple to add error handling.
Let's just cut and paste these four lines of code into our clipboard again.
So I'll cut those and we can set up a try block.
So try and in curly brackets, drop down within the try block.
Go ahead and paste in your clipboard.
Right after the closing curly bracket for try, we can have a catch block, catch curly brackets now
right after the word catch, we can include parentheses and we can include a parameter.
So either E or E, R or error.
And then within the catch block, we can use that error however we see fit.
So, for example, you can log into the console or send it to the browser.
And actually now that we added error handling, we would indeed want to add a weight before our eat
dessert operation.
So right here I would add a weight that way.
We are waiting for eat dessert to either resolve or reject.
And if it does reject, if there is an error.
Well, since we waited for it to finish, the catch block can do its job.
The idea is that if any of our asynchronous operations result in an error or if they reject instead
of resolve, well, then our catch block will run.
And again, we don't need to babysit or micromanage the errors.
Whichever operation rejects first, that error will be passed into this.
So again, this async a wait method is my favorite way of working with promises.
However, we are not going to rewrite the area where we leverage our promise within our user, control
their file.
So within user control or digest, I'm not going to have us rewrite this to use async wait instead of
DOT then because we've already rewritten this code once.
I don't want to make you rewrite the same thing yet again.
Just know that going forward we are going to use the async await strategy over and over again.
All right.
Now this lesson is winding down to a close, and I realized that we covered a lot of new material in
this one lesson.
And I want you to know that I do not expect you to fully remember everything from this lesson.
One hundred percent.
All you really need to know is that a promise is an object that represents the eventual completion of
an asynchronous operation.
Even if you don't remember any of the syntax from this lesson and you just have a general idea of promises
dealing with uncertain timings and they help us coordinate actions and there an alternative to traditional
callbacks, if that's all you remember.
That's great.
And you're right on track.
We are going to continue to use promises throughout the remainder of this course.
So you're going to have plenty of chances to practice working with them.
Big picture, just like a promise in real life is dealing with something happening in the future.
And just like in real life, you can either keep your promise or fail to deliver your promise.
Well, in JavaScript, a promise can either resolve or reject.
Cool.
Now, that's enough about promises for now.
In our next lesson, we are going to talk about a completely unrelated best practice, which is not
storing user passwords in plain text in our database, but instead hashing the user's password so that
if our database was ever compromised or leaked, we wouldn't actually be revealing users passwords to
the malicious user or attacker.
Don't worry.
In the next lesson, I'll explain what I'm getting at.
So let's keep things rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.